# I Love Lou

*Originally published on Substack, December 2024*

---

"Her entire life led to the moment when she said
'This is the life I want,'
& she never again wasted time on anything that wasn't that."

I married myself a few weeks ago. Well, if we are being technical, I am in an eternal partnership with myself, but the sentiment is the same. I chose a random Wednesday—the date had no importance. What was important was the simple act of declaring my vows of how I would show up for myself daily for the rest of my life in the presence of witnesses. It was for me and me alone.

This is an incredibly vulnerable thing for me to share, but I want to do so because it was hard to get here, and I would love to do whatever I can to make it easier for others to reach a similar spot. Before you dismiss this as 'Louise has become a new-aged hippie and officially has lost her mind', I'd like to share my approach with the hopes that it may inspire you to find and boldly proclaim love for yourself too.

This came out of the core realization that, ultimately, there is no one on the planet who can love me better than I can love myself. No one can read my mind, and it's unfair for me to expect anyone to guess what I need if I can't articulate it myself. It required the simple but profoundly difficult act of completely and totally taking agency for myself - I, alone, am responsible for my happiness. And it comes down to the cardinal rule, "put your own oxygen mask on first before attempting to help those around you." In my world, Lou will always come first, and by attending to my needs first, I am more equipped to be there for everyone I love.

To be clear, I am not perfect. I am also not here under any false pretenses that I am fully healed. It's a journey I will be on for the rest of my life, but I am unbelievably proud of how far I have come.

## The 10 Commandments of Lou

In case it inspires you to write your own, these are my vows to myself. It took more than two years of dedication to my healing (and, of course, my total thirty-three years focused on living) to reach a point where I could consider putting a pen to paper and less than ten minutes to write them. I wrote them when I reached a point of being so in tune with the love that I needed that they effectively wrote themselves. It felt natural for them to be commandments. Rules feel restrictive and are meant to be broken. I don't place much value in words alone, so regardless of how poetically beautiful I could make my vows, I needed to feel like an agreement with actions to support them. I wanted something specific I could use as my compass but broad enough to leave room for adventure and the joy of living. I plan to use them when I'm not feeling sure of something, I have some doubt, or I need an extra boost of confidence that I am on the right path. They are commandments of my self-sovereignty and reminders of how to find my way home if I ever get lost again. And I repeat them to myself as it feels right until I find the need to make amendments.

My 10 Commandments of Lou. This is how I would like to live my life from here out. These may change and grow, I leave myself room to expand and evolve.

**Me:**
I am the most special, sacred, magical, brilliant, caring, wonderful, loveable human I know. I am so lucky to have the life that I do. I live every second and every day fully like I will die tomorrow, and I always remember how grateful I am.

**My Body:**
My body is divine. I treat myself as such. I take great care of what I consume. It is my job to ensure my body can function at its highest level. I focus on what nourishes me and enables me to feel my best energetically. I focus on whole, natural, unprocessed foods vs. depressants (processed, alcohol, junk food). I focus on workouts that give me life, not wear me down. I take care of my body and thank my body for everything it does for me, especially my feet. Look how far they've taken me.

**My Mind:**
My mind is sacred. I learn like I will live forever. I am capable of it. I am the product of what I surround myself with. I take care of the information I absorb. I focus on what will make me better versus passing the time. I fill my time with intellectual, creative, and spiritual pursuits. I let the spark of curiosity guide me. I always keep a beginner's mind. There doesn't need to be a purpose; my pure enjoyment of the adventure of spelunking down a new rabbit hole is more than enough.

**My Light:**
I am a light to help others, but I must maintain myself and my state first. I prioritize friendships and relationships that are mutual. I surround myself with people who elevate me and help me see the world differently. I allow myself to receive and be taken care of, not just give. Most importantly, I carve out space for Lou Time. I alone am capable of maintaining my light. I live in a state of curiosity and wonder. I prioritize my spiritual path and my journey.

**My Creativity:**
I let my creativity flow as it will, and encourage whatever form or flow it takes. I protect my state above all - I take great care not to criticize or question until I am in a state to receive feedback. I let it flow wildly and freely (like me).

**My Roots:**
I am of the earth, the ocean, the air, and fire, and I need them all to survive and thrive fully. When I am in doubt, I get outside. I aim to be in the source (the ocean, nature) daily. A friendly reminder in case I forget: my favorite way to wake up is a sunrise run in the woods and a swim in the ocean.

**My Darkness:**
I will treat joy and sadness as one. Things will come, and things will go. I will "meet with Triumph and Disaster and treat those two imposters just the same". Everything is temporary and transitory. I am never too old to start again, and it is never too late to correct my course. I focus on the world I am living in now.

**My Magic:**
I infuse my life with joyful and playful magic. It is a gift to be alive in the mystical, magical world of LouLouLand. I leave notes to myself daily on how magical, special, and loveable I am. No one can love me as well as I can love me. It doesn't need to be big; it just needs to make me smile and let me know that I am thinking of myself. I send a profound thank you to the universe for every love note it surprises me with. I take nothing, myself included, for granted.

**My Love:**
Love is always the answer. I lead with loving-kindness. I have an enormous and limitless heart. I am a natural giver, but it is just as important to learn to receive, too. Love is my gateway to life; I am free in love. I love fully. Everyone around me could have been me at various times or lives. I am capable of making and improving the world I live in.

**My Choice:**
I always turn to the light. Darkness and temptation will always be present, but I can make the conscious choice to choose light and love every time.

## My Love Story

This is the most personal story I have ever told and the most important one. It is a tale as old as time but also uniquely mine. It is my fairytale (and guess what, everyone lives happily ever after). That's kind of the beauty of realizing that you are not the product of stories that are told to you; when you can write your own stories, everything works out exactly how it should.

I met her on February 13, 2022. Like any good meet-cute, I had this feeling I had met her long ago, maybe in another lifetime, maybe in paths crossing on a subway. Either way, I had this profound realization that I couldn't mess it up. This was going to be a very special person in my life (arguably the most special), but I knew I had to tread lightly. I mean, we barely knew each other. We were strangers. She had been hurt so many times in her life by so many people. I met her crying on the street. Her heart had been broken by the world. It wasn't exactly the 'Hey you're cute, let's run off into the sunset and disappear somewhere' situation I was hoping for. It was going to take time, it wasn't going to be easy, it was going to require tangible action and dedication on my part to prove I was worthy of taking care of her completely and fully. I didn't know if I was up for it, but I realized I had no choice. She was going to continuously repeat the same spiral of pain for the rest of her life (and probably a few lives after that), and I just couldn't sit back and watch it happen anymore. It just hit a point of being too awful to bear, and I committed fully to doing whatever I needed to do to change.

## In Search For the Other

Many of us spend our lives waiting for someone to solve things for us. A parent, a potential lover, a teacher, a boss. There are two sides to this. If you view the glass half-full: a romantic notion that there is someone out there who can complete us. A yin to our yang, a soulmate, a forever partner, our person. And the other side of the equation, looking at the glass half-empty: the things that hold us back, the people who caused us to be in this position, the reasons why we have failed.

In both ways, you are limited. In both ways, you have given away your agency and ownership of self. In the search for a soulmate, you've hung your hope on the appearance of a magical other, a Prince Charming to save you from your plight. And in the search for someone to blame, that same hope is blocked by the inverse form. It's an M.C. Escher picture - what you seek is also what you run from. It's an infinite and self-replicating loop across this life and others to come.

We start with the inverse, the darkness. It's counterintuitive in some ways, but it's easier mentally to blame someone else for your failures than take ownership of yourself. There is something extremely tempting about the victim mindset—it's somewhat of a 'get out of jail free' card. This atrocious thing happened to me so I can be absolved from responsibility—society supports me, I can live an easy life, and so forth.

And then the reverse, the light, the love and acceptance we are looking for. We fall in love with people who fill some hole in us, who have some attributes that we wish we had. And we look to solve it externally rather than looking to solve it in ourselves.

But what if we saw it as both possibilities at once—that there is some future state where there is nothing you need from anyone else and no one is holding you back? What if there was a way to be free?

On February 13, 2022, I committed to facing my demons head-on, not running away, not pulling the eject cord, but exhuming the skeletons in my closet, no matter how terrifying they may be or how much they may hurt those around me that I love. I committed to a complete understanding of the good and the bad—the love I was seeking and the pain I was running from. I committed to seeing both sides of the glass at once.

It started benignly with one question: What would it take for me to be the person I wanted to marry? And how could I find the love I was looking for within myself instead of in another? I followed that with a process of refinding and rediscovering myself.

## Meet Lou

Her name is Lou. I realized if I was going to go through the process of trying to date myself, I needed a pet name. I needed my true name. Lou was a name reserved for my family and a select few in my innermost circle. It is the most intimate way of referring to me. It was always extremely jarring to me when people I didn't know very well or didn't trust (pretty much everyone, Lou had some serious trust issues) called me by Lou. It was my childhood name and the complete encapsulation of a lot of joy but an overwhelming amount of sadness. It only makes sense that my innermost self, the essence of what it means to be me, is named Lou. To be clear, I love my name Louise. It is derived from the male name Louis, and stems from Germanic base hlutha (famous) and wiga (battle) translating roughly to famous warrior (and I am a warrior, so this checks out). I was born blessed with a tremendous amount of grit and resilience. I was named after a number of people, but most importantly to me, Louise Ireland Grimes Ireland, also known as Ligi.

Louise is an old-fashioned name, proper, tongue-in-cheek, sophisticated, reserved on the surface, and then completely unhinged once you dive below - Louise is me. Louise is one-half of Thelma and Louise - ready to drive off a cliff at a moment's notice for a cause she believes in and is fiercely loyal to friends. Louise knew how to be strong and brave - Louise is an absolute shark - but Louise didn't know how to let her defenses down. Lou, on the other hand, I really didn't know Lou. I don't know any of Lou's (aside from Lou Reed, but that felt more like an opening of freedom into androgyny). Lou was a mystery to me. I needed to learn who Lou was.

## You May Call Me Lou

Please call me by my true names,
so I can hear all my cries and laughs at once,
so I can see that my joy and pain are one.
Please call me by my true names,
so I can wake up,
and so the door of my heart can be left open,
the door of compassion.
- Thich Nhat Hanh

I write this as an invitation to call me by true name, my nickname. Lou. To be clear, I'm not changing my name. But I find something immensely powerful about being called a name previously reserved only for my family by a complete stranger; I want to see the world with as much compassion and love as I have for those closest to me.

Throughout the last two years, I found myself anchored to the idea that I was like a butterfly. I found it helpful to view myself like a larva at the beginning, turning into a caterpillar when I was in absolute darkness. I emerged from my cocoon over new years with wings ready for flight.

But I now realize that I am a bird. A parrot, to be specific, like the flock of wild parrots that lives outside of my window. I've always had wings. I just forgot how to fly. A very dear friend sent me this quote from James Hillman, "All birds, whatever their species… are twice-born: once as an egg from the mother, and then born again from the egg."

This journey will never end. But I will never forget that I have everything I could possibly need - the strength, the courage, the light, and most importantly, the love - all inside of me.

I love Lou,
always forever,
near and far,
close and together,
everywhere I will be with you,
everything I will do for you.
